README.md, before:

# SshManager

[![Build](https://github.com/tomertec/sshmanager/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tomertec/sshmanager/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![.NET 8](https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET-8.0-purple.svg)](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0)
[![Windows](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-Windows-0078D6.svg)](https://www.microsoft.com/windows)

A modern Windows desktop application for managing SSH and serial port connections with an embedded terminal.

![SshManager Screenshot](docs/screenshot.png)

## Features

### SSH Connections
- **Host Management** - Store and organize SSH connections with groups
- **Embedded Terminal** - Full-featured terminal with xterm.js (vim, tmux, htop all work)
- **Multiple Tabs & Split Panes** - Work with multiple sessions side by side
- **Secure Credential Storage** - Passwords encrypted with Windows DPAPI
- **SSH Key Support** - SSH Agent, private key files, or password authentication
- **SSH Key Management** - Generate, import, and manage SSH keys with passphrase support
- **PPK Import Wizard** - Batch convert PuTTY keys to OpenSSH format
- **SFTP Browser** - Graphical file transfer with drag-and-drop
- **Port Forwarding** - Local and remote port forwarding profiles
- **Jump Hosts** - ProxyJump support for bastion/jump host connections
- **Import/Export** - Import from SSH config or PuTTY, backup to cloud

### Serial Port Connections
- **COM Port Support** - Connect to serial devices (routers, switches, embedded systems)
- **Full Configuration** - Baud rate, data bits, stop bits, parity, flow control
- **DTR/RTS Control** - Toggle hardware signals for device reset/boot modes
- **Local Echo** - Optional local character echo for half-duplex devices
- **Quick Connect** - Enumerate and connect to available COM ports instantly
- **Save & Organize** - Store serial port configurations alongside SSH hosts

### General
- **Modern UI** - Dark theme with Fluent Design (WPF-UI)
- **Session Recording** - Record and playback terminal sessions (ASCIINEMA format)

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Windows 10/11 (64-bit)
- [.NET 8.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0) or later
- WebView2 Runtime (pre-installed on Windows 10/11)

### Build & Run

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/tomertec/sshmanager.git
cd sshmanager

# Build
dotnet build SshManager.sln

# Run
dotnet run --project src/SshManager.App/SshManager.App.csproj
```

### Download Release

Check the [Releases](https://github.com/tomertec/sshmanager/releases) page for pre-built binaries.

## Usage

1. **Add a host**: Click the **+** button and enter connection details
2. **Connect**: Double-click a host or press Enter
3. **Organize**: Create groups to organize your hosts
4. **Split panes**: Right-click a tab to split horizontally/vertically

For detailed usage instructions, see the [Getting Started Guide](docs/GETTING_STARTED.md).

## Documentation

- [Getting Started](docs/GETTING_STARTED.md) - First-time setup and basic usage
- [Full Documentation](docs/README.md) - Complete feature documentation
- [Architecture](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) - Technical architecture details
- [API Reference](docs/API.md) - Terminal services API for developers

## Technology Stack

| Component | Technology |
|-----------|------------|
| Framework | .NET 8, WPF |
| UI Library | [WPF-UI](https://github.com/lepoco/wpfui) (Fluent Design) |
| MVVM | [CommunityToolkit.Mvvm](https://github.com/CommunityToolkit/dotnet) |
| Database | SQLite via EF Core |
| SSH | [SSH.NET](https://github.com/sshnet/SSH.NET) |
| Serial | System.IO.Ports + [RJCP.SerialPortStream](https://github.com/jcurl/RJCP.DLL.SerialPortStream) |
| Terminal | [xterm.js](https://xtermjs.org/) via WebView2 |

## Building from Source

```bash
# Debug build
dotnet build SshManager.sln

# Release build
dotnet build SshManager.sln -c Release

# Run tests
dotnet test

# Publish self-contained executable
dotnet publish src/SshManager.App/SshManager.App.csproj -c Release -r win-x64 --self-contained
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [SSH.NET](https://github.com/sshnet/SSH.NET) - SSH library for .NET
- [RJCP.SerialPortStream](https://github.com/jcurl/RJCP.DLL.SerialPortStream) - Cross-platform serial port library
- [WPF-UI](https://github.com/lepoco/wpfui) - Modern WPF controls
- [xterm.js](https://xtermjs.org/) - Terminal emulator for the web
- [CommunityToolkit.Mvvm](https://github.com/CommunityToolkit/dotnet) - MVVM framework

Commit message:

Add Velopack integration and release automation
Integrated Velopack for installer creation and automatic updates. Added build-release.ps1 script, update service interfaces, view model, and comprehensive documentation (checklist, guides, quick reference, integration summary, setup complete). Updated README with build and release instructions. Registered update services in DI and updated project configuration for Velopack support. Added initial release assets and instructions for publishing and testing updates.

README.md, after:

# SshManager

[![Build](https://github.com/tomertec/sshmanager/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tomertec/sshmanager/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![.NET 8](https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET-8.0-purple.svg)](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0)
[![Windows](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-Windows-0078D6.svg)](https://www.microsoft.com/windows)

A modern Windows desktop application for managing SSH and serial port connections with an embedded terminal.

![SshManager Screenshot](docs/screenshot.png)

## Features

### SSH Connections
- **Host Management** - Store and organize SSH connections with groups
- **Embedded Terminal** - Full-featured terminal with xterm.js (vim, tmux, htop all work)
- **Multiple Tabs & Split Panes** - Work with multiple sessions side by side
- **Secure Credential Storage** - Passwords encrypted with Windows DPAPI
- **SSH Key Support** - SSH Agent, private key files, or password authentication
- **SSH Key Management** - Generate, import, and manage SSH keys with passphrase support
- **PPK Import Wizard** - Batch convert PuTTY keys to OpenSSH format
- **SFTP Browser** - Graphical file transfer with drag-and-drop
- **Port Forwarding** - Local and remote port forwarding profiles
- **Jump Hosts** - ProxyJump support for bastion/jump host connections
- **Import/Export** - Import from SSH config or PuTTY, backup to cloud

### Serial Port Connections
- **COM Port Support** - Connect to serial devices (routers, switches, embedded systems)
- **Full Configuration** - Baud rate, data bits, stop bits, parity, flow control
- **DTR/RTS Control** - Toggle hardware signals for device reset/boot modes
- **Local Echo** - Optional local character echo for half-duplex devices
- **Quick Connect** - Enumerate and connect to available COM ports instantly
- **Save & Organize** - Store serial port configurations alongside SSH hosts

### General
- **Modern UI** - Dark theme with Fluent Design (WPF-UI)
- **Session Recording** - Record and playback terminal sessions (ASCIINEMA format)

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Windows 10/11 (64-bit)
- [.NET 8.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0) or later
- WebView2 Runtime (pre-installed on Windows 10/11)

### Build & Run

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/tomertec/sshmanager.git
cd sshmanager

# Build
dotnet build SshManager.sln

# Run
dotnet run --project src/SshManager.App/SshManager.App.csproj
```

### Download Release

Check the [Releases](https://github.com/tomertec/sshmanager/releases) page for pre-built binaries.

## Usage

1. **Add a host**: Click the **+** button and enter connection details
2. **Connect**: Double-click a host or press Enter
3. **Organize**: Create groups to organize your hosts
4. **Split panes**: Right-click a tab to split horizontally/vertically

For detailed usage instructions, see the [Getting Started Guide](docs/GETTING_STARTED.md).

## Documentation

- [Getting Started](docs/GETTING_STARTED.md) - First-time setup and basic usage
- [Full Documentation](docs/README.md) - Complete feature documentation
- [Architecture](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) - Technical architecture details
- [API Reference](docs/API.md) - Terminal services API for developers

## Technology Stack

| Component | Technology |
|-----------|------------|
| Framework | .NET 8, WPF |
| UI Library | [WPF-UI](https://github.com/lepoco/wpfui) (Fluent Design) |
| MVVM | [CommunityToolkit.Mvvm](https://github.com/CommunityToolkit/dotnet) |
| Database | SQLite via EF Core |
| SSH | [SSH.NET](https://github.com/sshnet/SSH.NET) |
| Serial | System.IO.Ports + [RJCP.SerialPortStream](https://github.com/jcurl/RJCP.DLL.SerialPortStream) |
| Terminal | [xterm.js](https://xtermjs.org/) via WebView2 |

## Building from Source

```bash
# Debug build
dotnet build SshManager.sln

# Release build
dotnet build SshManager.sln -c Release

# Run tests
dotnet test

# Publish self-contained executable
dotnet publish src/SshManager.App/SshManager.App.csproj -c Release -r win-x64 --self-contained
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## Building and Releasing

SshManager uses **Velopack** for installer creation and automatic updates.

### Quick Build
```bash
# Install Velopack CLI
dotnet tool install -g vpk

# Build a release
.\build-release.ps1 -Version "1.0.0"
```

### Publishing Updates
See [VELOPACK_INTEGRATION.md](VELOPACK_INTEGRATION.md) for complete instructions on:
- Building installers
- Publishing releases to GitHub
- Creating delta updates
- Adding update UI to the app

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [SSH.NET](https://github.com/sshnet/SSH.NET) - SSH library for .NET
- [RJCP.SerialPortStream](https://github.com/jcurl/RJCP.DLL.SerialPortStream) - Cross-platform serial port library
- [WPF-UI](https://github.com/lepoco/wpfui) - Modern WPF controls
- [xterm.js](https://xtermjs.org/) - Terminal emulator for the web
- [CommunityToolkit.Mvvm](https://github.com/CommunityToolkit/dotnet) - MVVM framework
